 Clashing Attacks
Some Pokémon are not dexterous enough to be constantly 
evading, but they can rely on their sheer power to fend 
off their foe’s attacks by doing what we call a Clash.
Once per Round, when an opponent makes its Accuracy 
Roll you can order your Pokémon to use one of its own 
Damaging Moves (i.e. Thunderbolt, Water Gun, Close 
Combat) to try to deflect most of the damage. Simply 
Roll: 
If you score as many Succesess as your foe, you clash the 
attack and both your foe and your Pokémon will suffer 1 
damage instead of the foe making a damage roll.
Strategies to Win
It isn’t always the strongest, the fastest, or the higher 
ranked Pokémon that wins the fight.
How can you defeat an Onix with only the help of a tiny 
Pichu?
Well, having a strategy can save the day!
In this section, you will learn the many tricks and 
techniques to win almost any fight. 
Learn them all and any Pokémon at your side will be 
champion material.
 Holding Action
When you declare to hold your action your character will 
remain immobile looking at the foe, this will seem like an 
invitation to the foe or someone else to act before you do. 
You may use the action you were holding at any point 
during the round.
If both you and your foe hold action the round will end 
with no further actions.
It means that both sides paused the fight to eye each 
other warily...
 Evading 
It is always a smart move to get away from danger. You 
may do this by evading attacks or finding cover.
Once per Round you can Evade an attack, simply have 
to give the order “Evade it!” or “Dodge!”.  
Your Pokémon will understand that danger is coming its 
way and will react as fast as possible.
An Evasion action can be triggered regardless of initiative 
order at the cost of an action. All you need to do is Roll:
If you score as many Succesess as your foe, you evade 
the attack.
Support Moves, Moves that 
ignore Defenses and Moves 
that have a Set Damage can’t 
be Clashed.
50
Dexterity + Evasion
Strength/Special + Clash
Clashing counts as an Action, thus, acting again this 
Round will require another Success as stated on the 
table for Multiple Actions. 
All Damage taken from a Clash is affected by the 
Super Effective and It’s Not Very Effective rule.
While not as effective as Evasion to reduce damage 
intake, Clashing attacks is a good option for slower 
but strong and resilient Pokémon.
Clash can be performed only once 
per Round.
Once you use a Move for a Clash 
you can’t repeat it during the 
same Round; You’ll have to wait 
until the next one!
Evading counts as an Action, thus, acting again this 
Round will require another Success as stated on the 
table for Multiple Actions.
Evasion can be performed only 
once per Round.

---PAGE BREAK---
Whenever a Pokémon performs an Attack that 
matches one of its types you’ll get the “Same 
Type Attack Bonus” or STAB  for short.  
This adds 1 Bonus Dice to the Damage 
Pools of matching Type 
attacks.
 Same Type Attack Bonus (STAB)
All Pokémon can control different Types of energy, but 
these energies will come out naturally stronger if they 
are from thier own Type.
For example, a Grass-Type is stronger at controlling 
plants, while a Normal-type won't be as powerful when 
trying to do the same.
 
Using Moves that match their own type will give you an 
edge when trying to deal damage.
 Taking Cover
 
This action will help you resist damage against Ranged 
attacks depending on much of your body is covered.
It is possible to avoid damage completely at Storyteller’s 
Discretion. A Cover may be destroyed after taking a few 
hits.
Bonus Def/SDef
vs Ranged Attacks
1/4
Body Coverage
1/2
FULL
+1
+2
Cover must be 
destroyed
You can use the Maneuver “Cover 
an Ally” to use your body as a shield 
for a small Pokémon.
Or you can make a big Pokémon use 
it to cover yourself!
Pain Penalizations and other penalties may remove 
even more successes from your Roll.
The power of some Moves might seem tempting, but 
you’ll need a lot more than powerful moves to win your 
battles.
If your foe is relying on powerful but unaccurate Moves, 
don’t be scared, make their advantage become their 
disadvantage by Evading or Clashing.
Pikachu’s Dice Pool
Move Accuracy
-2 Successes
Pikachu’s Dice Pool
Take a look at this example:
Pikachu is trying to attack its foe Stunky with the 
move Thunder. Which has an Accuracy of -2: 
The roll fails. A Thunder stroke in the arena but it 
did not hit the target.
On Stunky’s turn he uses the move Smokescreen 
reducing Pikachu’s Accuracy by 1.
In the next Round, Pikachu’s Accuracy Roll for 
Thunder would be:
Pikachu would have to train its skills to get better at 
controlling this kind of attacks.
 Low Accuracy Moves
If you perform a move labeled with a sign like this:
 
Remove the noted number of Successes from your 
Accuracy  Roll.
Accuracy
1
Accuracy
2
Accuracy
3
-3 Successes
with
Accuracy
2
Accuracy
3
Move Accuracy 
with
51

---PAGE BREAK---
52
A Shellder with a Defense of 5 used the move 
Withdraw as its first action.
Its Defense will be increased 1 point making it a 
total of 6.
On its next action, Shellder used the move Iron 
Defense, which increases its Defense by 2 points. 
Its Defense will now be 7. The effects of Withdraw 
are replaced. 
If Shellder uses Iron Defense once again the next 
round, its Defense would remain unchanged.
The same rule applies for decreasing the attributes of a 
Pokémon, with the only exception that once an attribute 
is decreased to just 1 point, it cannot be decreased 
further.
Some Held Items will directly affect the attributes of a 
Pokémon but their effects will not stack along with the 
effects of a move and you will take into account only the 
highest modifier.
 
Take these examples of combining moves and abilities to 
increase your own attributes or reduce your foe’s:
Your little pink Snubull goes into battle, against an 
aggressive Tyranitar with a Strength score of 4.  
Fortunately, Snubull has the ability Intimidate, 
which reduces by 1 point the Strength of all foes in 
range.
On its turn, Snubull uses the move Charm, which 
means a further reduction of 2 points for the foe. 
By the end of Snubull’s turn, Tyranitar only has 1 
point on its Strength Attribute. 
Now that doesn’t sound too menacing!
When combined with Abilities, Pokémon 
can achieve incredible power through 
temporary increases in Power, Defense 
and Speed.
All these Power-ups and downs are only temporary. 
They will last for a scene or until the Pokémon is 
removed from battle.
 Critical Hit
 
To land a Critical Hit you have to score 3 more successes 
than what is required for your Accuracy Roll. 
If you do, you will add 2 dice to your Damage Pool.
Also, Moves labeled with this Icon:
Are called “High-Critical” moves.
You'll need only 2 more Successes than necessary, to 
get a Critical hit! 
Archen is fighting Amaura. Archen managed to land 
a Critical-Hit with the move Crunch.
This will be Archen’s Damage Pool:
Archen’s Strength
Crunch’s Power
Critical Hit Bonus
Amaura’s Defense
Amaura is at risk of receiving a serious amount of 
damage from Archen’s Attack!
Temporary increases of attributes can only make 
a Pokémon reach a maximum of 10 Points.
That means that if your Pokémon already has 
a score of 10 in an attribute it won’t be able to 
increase it further.
If your Pokémon has reached the limit score on 
its attribute, and increases it using a move or ability, 
as long as it keeps it on 10 or less it will be able 
to do so without problems.
Your Floatzel has 4 points of Dexterity. Its Ability is 
Swift Swim, which increases Dexterity by 2 Points 
during Rain weather. 
It is raining at the moment and Floatzel uses the 
Move Agility in its turn.  This move adds 2 Points to 
the user’s Dexterity.  
Floatzel ends up with 8 total Dexterity Points: 
4 points are its own, 2 from its Ability and 2 more 
from the Move it used. 
   
 Attributes: Increase & Reduction
You will notice that some moves are marked with this 
kind of icons:
Most of them don’t deal damage but increase or reduce 
the attributes of a Pokémon instead.
It is a valid strategy to reduce your foe’s Attributes to 
get an advantage. If you combine this with increasing 
your own Pokémon Attributes, you will be on the right 
path to victory.
A Move may increase or decrease an attribute by 1, 2 
or 3 points, this effect is only temporary.
These points do not stack on the same attribute, but 
instead only take into account the move with the highest 
modifier.
Attribute
1
Attribute
1
Attribute
1
Attribute
1
It is illegal to go into an official match 
of the league with your Pokémon 
already buffed. You’ll have to put it 
back into its Pokéball and let it out 
when the match begins.

---PAGE BREAK---
53
    Holding Back
Sometimes it will be more convenient to contain the full 
force of your Pokémon’s attacks.
Perhaps a move is extremely powerful but it may 
hurt your allies as well, maybe you are fighting a wild 
Pokémon you want to catch and do not want it to faint.
Or it could be that you are participating in an official 
League Tournament and you cannot use your favorite 
move by going all out.
For those cases, you give the command to “Hold Back” in 
order to do either of the next options:
● Deal Half Damage.
You make your damage roll normally but only inflict half 
of the damage rounded down to those affected by your 
attack.
● Deal Regular Damage instead of Lethal Damage.
If your order your Pokémon to use a move that would 
deal Lethal Damage:
You can also add the order: “Restrain yourself!”, “Don’t 
use full force!” or something along the lines so the 
damage your Pokémon inflicts will not need a trip to the 
emergency room ...or the graveyard.
    Priority and Low Priority
Many actions and Moves are quick and abrupt or slow 
and complex. Priority and Low Priority are terms to 
indicate which Moves get into effect outside of the normal 
Initiative order. They are labeled by these signs:
They represent Priority, which allows a Pokémon to act 
right away even if it’s not their turn yet.
And Low Priority, in which the Pokémon will use its move 
but it will take effect at the End of the Round.
Take into account: once you announce a Priority Move, 
your foe may change his order/action to an Evasion, or it 
may use another Priority Move.
Low Priority is the opposite, it will take effect at the 
End of the Round, it may look like the foe is holding 
their action while in reality, it is just about to strike.
Priority
1
Priority
1
In case two Pokémon are using a Priority 
move at the same time, the move with 
higher Priority number will be resolved 
first. In case both have the same priority 
number, the initiative order will determine 
who resolves it first.

---PAGE BREAK---
54
    Healing In-Battle
There are three ways to heal a character in-battle:
● By applying healing items, such as Spray Potions or 
medicine on them. One Potion unit heals 1 damage, 
two units heal 1 lethal damage.
● By using a held item such as a Berry.
 
● By using moves that restore your health. These moves 
may require the user to spend 1 Will Point to get the 
benefits.
Humans cannot use healing moves but can have Pokémon 
use some of their moves on them, they also can’t have 
a held item but they are free to use a berry or medicine 
and apply it on themselves or their Pokémon.
Now, while the healing in this world can be miraculously 
fast, a 10-second Round is too-short a time to make a full 
recovery from some wounds.
Some Pokémon are able to learn moves that restore 
health. They are identified with this icons:
	
  Basic Heal
	
  Heal regular damage equal to 3 HP.
	
  Complete Heal
	
  Heal regular and Lethal damage equal to 5 HP.
	
  Fixed Heal
	
  For example: Heal up to 2 Damage.
	
  Fixed Complete Heal
	
  For example: Heal up to 2 Lethal Damage.
If your Pokémon makes the Accuracy roll to activate 
a move labeled with any of these icons and succeeds, 
you need to spend 1 Will Point in order to get their 
benefits. If the Accuracy roll fails you don’t need to 
spend the Will Point.
When you are in battle, potions,  
berries and Moves can only heal a 
maximum of 3 HP per round. 
 
Complete Heal, Max Potion, and Full Restore 
are the only things able to heal more.
You can only heal 3 HP per round when using Potions and 
most healing moves, but moves identified with this icon.
Complete Heal
Are able to heal up to 5 HP per round.
Once you reach the healing limit or the Subject restores 
its full HP, the recovery stops and any remaining points 
will be lost. Take this example:
Heal
X
Heal
X
Healing Moves are not infinite, 
Your Pokemon’s Will score can 
run out before recovering all of 
its HP.
Always carry Potions!
Your Meganium is fighting a wild Pokémon and you 
order it to use the move Grassy Terrain.
One of the effects of Grassy Terrain is this:
                               
Heal
1
For the next 4 Rounds, User and Allies on the 
ground Restore 1 HP at the End of the Round.
The battle continues and Meganium receives a 
brutal strike, it has 2 HP remaining from its total 
HP of 9. It needs healing ASAP. You run to its aid 
with a Potion in hand and apply 3 units of Potion 
that will restore 3 HP to Meganium. However, the 
HP  healed from Grassy Terrain won’t take effect 
this round and won’t carry on to the next one.
A couple of rounds pass and someone activated 
Sunny Weather in the field, Meganium has 5 HP so 
you order it to use the move Synthesis, one of its 
effects being:
                               
If Sunny Weather is in effect this Move becomes a 
Complete Heal.
This means it would recover 5 HP, but Meganium’s 
only has taken 4 damage, So it heals 4 HP and the 
remaining point is lost.
    Shield Moves
There are some moves labeled with this icon:
Their effects may differ from one another but they all 
have one thing in common, they are actions that involve 
using a shield against an incoming attack.
Unlike evading, Pokémon using these moves receive the 
attacks head-on with certainty that they’ll come out 
practically unscathed. Shield Moves can reduce damage 
to zero.
